# Incident: 2025-04-08 09-24-10

## Summary

Between the hour of 9:24 and 9:29 on April 4, 2025, six (6) users encountered failed pizza orders. The event was triggered by an issue with a change to the pizza factory api at 9:24. A bug in this change caused all pizza orders to fail. This event was detected by the Grafana alerting system, but was first noticed by a vigilant devops employee monitoring the Grafana dashboard at the time. This priority 1 incident affected 100% of users.

## Detection

This incident was detected when the devops employee Dylan Shuldberg noticed that pizza orders began to fail. He then took immediate action to diagnose and resolve the issue, after which an email notification arrived at his inbox. Phone paging will be set up by Dylan so that automated notification will be more immediate.

## Impact

For 5 minutes, between 9:24 and 9:29 on 04/08/2025, all pizza orders were failing.

This incident affected 6 customers (100% of users at the time), who experienced failed orders.

Zero tickets were submitted during this time.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _15:24:10_ - Unknown change made to JWT Pizza Factory API server.
- _15:24:10_ - All pizza orders begin failing.
- _15:24:40_ - Grafana alert state begins pending.
- _15:25:00_ - DevOps employee notices failing orders and begins diagnosis and resolution.
- _15:25:30_ - Action taken to resolve issue via sending a request to the API management.
- _15:25:40_ - Grafana alert state fires.
- _15:26:16_ - Email alert arrives in inbox.
- _15:29:24_ - Pizza orders stop failing.
- _15:29:40_ - Grafana alert state stops firing.

## Response

After noticing pizza failures on the Grafana Dashboard, Dylan Shuldberg took immediate action at 9:25 in Grafana to diagnose and resolve the issue.

## Root cause

The JWT Pizza Factory API was failing all pizza requests from the provided API key, leading all pizza roders through the site to fail.

## Resolution

Error logs for the failed requests indicated a url to visit, which upon visiting sent an appropriate request to the Factory API to allow pizza orders to succeed again.

## Prevention

This incident has no precedent.

## Action items

Dylan Shuldberg is assigned to cut ties with the JWT Pizza Factory API on April 16th and shut down the website in order to prevent any future incidents occurring.